.nh
.TH ROFI-SCRIPT 5 rofi-script
.SH NAME
.PP
\fBrofi script mode\fP - Rofi format for scriptable mode.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBrofi\fP supports modes that use simple scripts in the background to generate a
list and process the result from user actions.  This provide a simple interface
to make simple extensions to rofi.

.SH USAGE
.PP
To specify a script mode, set a mode with the following syntax: "{name}:{executable}"

.PP
For example:

.PP
.RS

.nf
rofi -show fb -modes "fb:file_browser.sh"

.fi
.RE

.PP
The name should be unique.

.SH API
.PP
Rofi calls the executable without arguments on startup.  This should generate a
list of options, separated by a newline (\fB\fC\\n\fR) (This can be changed by the
script). If the user selects an option, rofi calls the executable with the text
of that option as the first argument. If the script returns no entries, rofi
quits.

.PP
A simple script would be:

.PP
.RS

.nf
#!/usr/bin/env bash

if [ x"$@" = x"quit" ]
then
    exit 0
fi
echo "reload"
echo "quit"


.fi
.RE

.PP
This shows two entries, reload and quit. When the quit entry is selected, rofi closes.

.SH Environment
.PP
Rofi sets the following environment variable when executing the script:

.SS \fB\fCROFI_RETV\fR
.PP
An integer number with the current state:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fB0\fP: Initial call of script.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB1\fP: Selected an entry.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB2\fP: Selected a custom entry.
.IP \(bu 2
\fB10-28\fP: Custom keybinding 1-19 ( need to be explicitly enabled by script ).

.RE

.SS \fB\fCROFI_INFO\fR
.PP
Environment get set when selected entry get set with the property value of the 'info' row option, if set.

.SS \fB\fCROFI_DATA\fR
.PP
Environment get set when script sets \fB\fCdata\fR option in header.

.SH Passing mode options
.PP
Extra options, like setting the prompt, can be set by the script.
Extra options are lines that start with a NULL character (\fB\fC\\0\fR) followed by a key, separator (\fB\fC\\x1f\fR) and value.

.PP
For example to set the prompt:

.PP
.RS

.nf
    echo -en "\\0prompt\\x1fChange prompt\\n"

.fi
.RE

.PP
The following extra options exists:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBprompt\fP:      Update the prompt text.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBmessage\fP:     Update the message text.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBmarkup-rows\fP: If 'true' renders markup in the row.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBurgent\fP:      Mark rows as urgent. (for syntax see the urgent option in dmenu mode)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBactive\fP:      Mark rows as active. (for syntax see the active option in dmenu mode)
.IP \(bu 2
\fBdelim\fP:       Set the delimiter for for next rows. Default is '\\n' and this option should finish with this. Only call this on first call of script, it is remembered for consecutive calls.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBno-custom\fP:   If set to 'true'; only accept listed entries, ignore custom input.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBuse-hot-keys\fP: If set to true, it enabled the Custom keybindings for script. Warning this breaks the normal rofi flow.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBkeep-selection\fP: If set, the selection is not moved to the first entry, but the current position is maintained. The filter is cleared.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBnew-selection\fP: If \fB\fCkeep-selection\fR is set, this allows you to override the selected entry (absolute position).
.IP \(bu 2
\fBdata\fP:         Passed data to the next execution of the script via \fBROFI_DATA\fP\&.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBtheme\fP:       Small theme snippet to f.e. change the background color of a widget.

.RE

.SH Parsing row options
.PP
Extra options for individual rows can be set.
The extra option can be specified following the same syntax as mode option, but following the entry.

.PP
For example:

.PP
.RS

.nf
    echo -en "aap\\0icon\\x1ffolder\\n"

.fi
.RE

.PP
The following options are supported:

.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBicon\fP: Set the icon for that row.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBmeta\fP: Specify invisible search terms.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBnonselectable\fP: If true the row cannot activated.
.IP \(bu 2
\fBinfo\fP: Info that, on selection, gets placed in the \fB\fCROFI_INFO\fR environment variable. This entry does not get searched.

.RE

.PP
multiple entries can be passed using the \fB\fC\\x1f\fR separator.

.PP
.RS

.nf
    echo -en "aap\\0icon\\x1ffolder\\x1finfo\\x1ftest\\n"

.fi
.RE

.SH Executing external program
.PP
If you want to launch an external program from the script, you need to make sure it is launched in the background.
If not rofi will wait for its output (to display).

.PP
In bash the best way to do this is using \fB\fCcoproc\fR\&.

.PP
.RS

.nf
 coproc ( myApp  > /dev/null  2>&1 )

.fi
.RE

.SH DASH shell
.PP
If you use the \fB\fCdash\fR shell for your script, take special care with how dash handles escaped values for the separators.
See issue #1201 on github.

.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
rofi(1), rofi-sensible-terminal(1), dmenu(1), rofi-theme(5), rofi-theme-selector(1)

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Qball Cow qball@gmpclient.org
\[la]mailto:qball@gmpclient.org\[ra]

.PP
Rasmus Steinke rasi@xssn.at
\[la]mailto:rasi@xssn.at\[ra]

.PP
Morgane Glidic sardemff7+rofi@sardemff7.net
\[la]mailto:sardemff7+rofi@sardemff7.net\[ra]

.PP
Original code based on work by: Sean Pringle sean.pringle@gmail.com
\[la]mailto:sean.pringle@gmail.com\[ra]

.PP
For a full list of authors, check the AUTHORS file.
